So let's move on to slices.
So we talked about like, here's a way
we can define our nums vec![1, 2, 3].
And how on the stack this is represented
as vecMetadata and then the actual 1,
2 and 3 are stored on the heap.
So here's our heap.
We've got our
first_elem_indexes right there.
And then this has a.
Let's say a capacitor sorry,
I guess this should have had four
full length is four, but no big deal.
So a slice is basically when you
say I wanna reuse that heat memory.
I just wanna make a new thing on the stack
that just basically has different
metadata.
I just wanna like reference
these same pieces of data.
Without like copying it without
cloning it without having to duplicate
anything on the heap.
I just wanna represent like
maybe a sub section of it,
or maybe even the entire thing.
So this slice says, ampersand nums,
bracket 0 dot dot 2.
And basically what this does is it
makes something called sliceMetadata.
Which looks a lot like vecMetadata except
that it's got the first element next
that part's the same and
the length that part's the same.
But it doesn't have a capacity because
slices always refer to some other
existing allocation.
That's where the ampersand comes from
is slices are actually reference types.
They're basically saying, you know what?
I want to look at some sub slice,
if you will, [LAUGH] Of an existing vec.
So slices are never owned,
this is not ever going to be deallocated.
It's basically saying, I'm just
referencing some data that's already been
allocated on the heap,
in some other data structure.
And when that data structure goes out
of scope, it's gonna get deallocated.
But I never get deallocated because
I'm not responsible for anything.
I'm just sort of piggybacking off
of somebody else's allocation.
And remembering from earlier, we were
talking about how these allocations can be
kind of expensive from
a normal perspective.
So slices can be a really nice way to
avoid having to do a new allocation having
to go back to the bookkeeping system.
While still being able to access
sub slices of the data, or
in some cases even just like
making kind of a lightweight.
Quasi copy of it without actually
having to clone everything.
So here we would say, okay, we've got
this data on the heap from our nums.
And we're saying first_elem_index
is usize that's pointing to
the same slot that we had for.
And the length is 3 in this case,
if we're going from 0 to 3.
And basically we're just saying,
yeah we're just referencing the same exact
memory as what was already
allocated on the heap previously.
So, importantly,
slices do not own the elements.
They just reference the elements
since somebody else is the owner.
So, actually, you can't really have
a slice that references heap memory.
Without somebody else having
made that heap memory first,
in this case our vector and nums.
So, the way that these types look
is that nums is a vec of u8.
And the slice is ampersand
square brackets u8.
So slices have their own syntax.
They're a language concept.
And they're sort of like hard
coded into the rust compiler.
So this will be the size type of
the slice is it's ampersand bracket u8.
Whereas nums is vacuous just like before.
You can also string slices.
So you can basically say I wanna grab some
number of chars from within a string.
Again, same rules,
the string slice doesn't own
the elements just references them.
You can take a string slice, which is
a sort of a sub slice of this string here.
We're going from like just
a subset of the string here.
And whereas previously, we saw that
the type of numbers would be a veck of u8.
And a slice of numbers would be
ampersand square brackets u8.
The type of a string slice
is just ampersand str.
That's it.
All the same rules apply a slice doesn't
own the elements just references them.
Except in this case it's referencing
elements of characters within a string.
Rather than u8 as a Vec or
whatever the heck might be holding.
If you want to get all of
the contents of the Veck as a slice,
you can just say nums.as_slice.
Or if you wanna get a slice of
all the characters in the string,
you can say string.as_str.
Okay, let's let's review and
then we'll do the exercises.
So let's review we started off
by talking about borrowing.
So we said let years_ref
is ampersand Vec of i32,
which is assigned to ampersand years.
So this is an immutable borrow so
this right here is the borrow part.
And in this right here
is the reference type.
So the way to get a reference
type is to perform a borrow.
We talked about how borrowing is
basically not transferring ownership.
Instead, it's sort of
lending access to something.
It's saying, hey, you can take a look
at this reference to my years.
But you're not gonna deallocate
anything because I'm still owning it.
I'm still in charge of cleaning it up
we talked about mutable references.
Which are basically like references
except they allow you to mutate
the contents of the thing
unlike immutable references.
And we talked about why thanks to rusts
concurrency guarantees to try to rule out
databases as a guarantee.
Basically says,
you're allowed to have exactly one mutable
reference active at one time
within the current scope.
Or any number of immutable references.
But if you have even
one mutable reference,
you can't have any immutable
ones active at the same time.
And you can't have any other mutable
ones ones active at the same time.
Then we talked about slices, and
how you can have a slice
of a years back like this.
And say I wanna get just a sub slice of
that and how that's gonna give me back.
A slice that has the same type of element
as the vec that we were talking about.
And it's gonna in fact use
the same memory as that.
But it's just gonna be
a reference to that memory.
This is not actually gonna be something
owned, that's going to be deallocated,
no deallocations will happen.
The deallocations are all up to the
original thing that we're sort of making
a slice of.
And then finally,
we talked about string slices,
how we have string slices which
can be exactly the same thing.
But just for strings instead of Vex.